Udacity Android Developer Nanodegree - Core App Quality Guidelines
http://udacity.github.io/android-nanodegree-guidelines/core.html

#Visual Design and User Interaction

@Standard Design
App does not redefine the expected function of a system icon (such as the Back button).
App does not redefine or misuse Android UI patterns, such that icons or behaviors could be misleading or confusing to users.

@Navigation
App supports standard system Back button navigation and does not make use of any custom, on-screen "Back button" prompts.
All dialogs are dismissible using the Back button.
Pressing the Home button at any point navigates to the Home screen of the device.

#Functionality

@Permissions
App does not redefine or misuse Android UI patterns, such that icons or behaviors could be misleading or confusing to users.
App does not request permissions to access sensitive data or services that can cost the user money, unless related to a core capability of the app.

@User/App State
App correctly preserves and restores user or app state, that is , student uses a bundle to save app state and restores it via onSaveInstanceState/onRestoreInstanceState. For example,
When a list item is selected, it remains selected on rotation.
When an activity is displayed, the same activity appears on rotation.
User text input is preserved on rotation.
Maintains list items positions on device rotation.
When the app is resumed after the device wakes from sleep (locked) state, the app returns the user to the exact state in which it was last used.
When the app is relaunched from Home or All Apps, the app restores the app state as closely as possible to the previous state.

#Performance and Stability

@Stability
App does not crash, force close, freeze, or otherwise function abnormally on any targeted device.




User Interface - Layout

MEETS SPECIFICATIONS
1. UI contains an element (e.g., a spinner or settings menu) to toggle the sort order of the movies by: most popular, highest rated.
2. Movies are displayed in the main layout via a grid of their corresponding movie poster thumbnails.
3. UI contains a screen for displaying the details for a selected movie.
4. Movie Details layout contains title, release date, movie poster, vote average, and plot synopsis.
5. Movie Details layout contains a section for displaying trailer videos and user reviews.

User Interface - Function

MEETS SPECIFICATIONS
1. When a user changes the sort criteria (most popular, highest rated, and favorites) the main view gets updated correctly.
2. When a movie poster thumbnail is selected, the movie details screen is launched.
3. When a trailer is selected, app uses an Intent to launch the trailer.
4. In the movies detail screen, a user can tap a button(for example, a star) to mark it as a Favorite.

Network API Implementation

MEETS SPECIFICATIONS
1. In a background thread, app queries the /movie/popular or /movie/top_rated API for the sort criteria specified in the settings menu.
2. App requests for related videos for a selected movie via the /movie/{id}/videos endpoint in a background thread and displays those details when the user selects a movie.
3. App requests for user reviews for a selected movie via the /movie/{id}/reviews endpoint in a background thread and displays those details when the user selects a movie.

Data Persistence

MEETS SPECIFICATIONS
1. The titles and ids of the user's favorite movies are stored in a ContentProvider backed by a SQLite db. This ContentProvider is updated whenever the user favorites or unfavorites a movie.
2. When the "favorites" setting option is selected, the main view displays the entire favorites collection based on movie ids stored in the ContentProvider.

Suggestions to Make Your Project Stand Out!
1. Extend the favorites ContentProvider to store the movie poster, synopsis, user rating, and release date, and display them even when offline.
2. Implement sharing functionality to allow the user to share the first trailer’s YouTube URL from the movie details screen.



Some usefull tutorial
Android Architecture Components
https://medium.com/proandroiddev/android-architecture-components-cb1ea88d3835